# Europe's Digital Evolution
In today’s interconnected world, access to the internet is no longer a luxury, but an essential tool for social participation, economic growth and equal opportunity. One of the core objectives of the EU’s digital transformation strategy is to empower citizens through access to digital technologies. However, disparities in internet access and usage persist between countries, demographic groups, and types of online activities. 

## Objective
This project generates actionable insights into digital inclusion, highlighting disparities within and between European countries.

## Key Questions
1. Who is online and what for? Explore how connected segments, countries and regions are.
2. Where are the gaps? Identify inequalities between populations, regions and online activities. 
3. What patterns shape Europe's digital life? Discover which activities lead and which still lag. 

## Data
The analysis is based on Eurostat datasets covering 38 countries: EU member states, EFTA members, and candidate nations (Turkey and Kosovo).The time span of the data is 2003-2024, enabling both regional comparison and trend analysis. 

**Datasets:**
- Eurostat. (n.d.). Internet activities by individuals and frequency of use (custom extraction). European Commission. Retrieved July 9, 2025, from https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/isoc_ci_ifp_fu__custom_17380066/default/table?lang=en

- Eurostat. (n.d.). Individuals using the internet for various activities (custom extraction). European Commission. Retrieved July 9, 2025, from https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/isoc_ci_ac_i__custom_17403281/default/table?lang=en

- Eurostat. (n.d.). Real GDP per capita in PPS (custom extraction). European Commission. Retrieved July 9, 2025, from https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/sdg_10_10__custom_17380086/default/table?lang=en

## Tools
The analysis was performed using **Python** with the following libraries:
- **Pandas**: data analysis and manipulation
- **Numpy**: numerical operations
- **OS**: interaction with the operating system
- **Seaborn**: data visualizations
**

The visual storyboard was created in **Tableau**

## Folders
The project files are organized as follows:
01. **Project Management** - contains: 
- [Data Source Description](<01 Project Management/EDE_Data_Source.pdf>) 
- [Data Summary](<02 Data/Data Summary>)
- [Data Overview]() that includes the population flow, data consistency checks and wrangling steps. 
02. **Data**- contains: 
- [Original Data](<02 Data/Original Data>).
_Note: The 'Prepared Data' folder is not included due to size constraints, but it can be generated by running the scripts in the [**Scripts**](<03 Scripts>) folder._
03. **Scripts** - Jupyter Notebooks used in the analysis.
04. **Analysis**- includes various [Visualizations](<04 Analysis/Visualizations>)

## Scripts
This folder includes a series of Jupyter Notebooks that document each step of the analysis process. Each script focuses on a specific task.
- [Data Profiling and Cleaning](<03 Scripts/1. EDE_Data Profiling and Cleaning.ipynb>)
- [Data Merging](<03 Scripts/2. EDE_Data Merging.ipynb>)
- Exploratory Analysis: [Demographic patterns](<03 Scripts/3.1 EDE_Exploring Relationships_Demographics.ipynb>) and [Economic patterns](<03 Scripts/3.2 EDE_Exploring Relationships_Economic.ipynb>)
- Spatial Analysis: [Demographics and Online Activities](<03 Scripts/4.1 EDE_Geospatial Analysis_Demographics.ipynb>) and [Frequency of Internet Access and Economic level (GDP per capita)](<03 Scripts/4.2 EDE_Geospatial Analysis_Economic.ipynb>)
- Linear Regression analysis [Part 1](<03 Scripts/5.1 EDE_Linear Regression_Demographics.ipynb>) and [Part 2](<03 Scripts/5.2 EDE_Linear_Regression_Economic.ipynb>)
- Clustering Analysis [by Activity Category](<03 Scripts/6.1 EDE_Clustering_Activity_Group.ipynb>) and [with Feature Selection](<03 Scripts/6.2 EDE_Clustering with Features Selection.ipynb>)
- [Time Series Analysis](<03 Scripts/7 EDE_Time Series Analysis.ipynb>)

## Executing the code
Clone the repository and run the Jupyter Notebook (.ipynb) files using **JupyterLab**, **Jupyter Notebook**, or any compatible environment. 

## Storyboard
You can view the project presentation here: [Europe's Digital Evolution](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/adriana.garcia.marquez/viz/InternetUseinEurope/EuropesInternetEvolution).
This presentation includes an overview of the analysis performed in Python and enriched in Tableau, showing the demographic and geographic patterns in terms of internet activities preferences as well as the profiles identified in the cluster analysis. 
